The weather got a little colder.
We'd be more in just kind of warm-up pants and t-shirt or long-seat t-shirt.
It got to be a lot more t-shirts, and I did enjoy being able to wear a hat to class, so there was always a hat on my head.
What kind of a hat?
Just kind of a normal baseball hat.
Forward or backward?
Uh, forward.
I've learned to wear it a little bit more backwards now, just being a little bit more comfortable, just my style.
Do you know where that started?
The backwards hat?
No, sir.
That was a Harlem revolt symbol.
Really?
I'll show you white guys.
You know, I don't want to follow your rules.
Really?
That's where it started.
That's kind of ironic now, I guess.
That and the baggy pants.
And the baggy pants.
You know, that you wear real low.
Right.
I have not gotten into the baggy pants yet.
I'm normally one of the preppier dressers of my group.
I'm a big golfer, so I normally wear a lot of my golf and polo shirts and khaki shorts or jeans to class.
Normally, if I wear jeans, it was back my freshman year and still is now.
I'm normally just kind of a boots and jeans kind of guy.
and uh in class what was the behavior routine did you all you and your buddies go to class regularly uh we did um that's one thing i've been pretty proud of is going to class uh fairly regularly there was there was the spring of my freshman year um was kind of the semester that i realized hey i don't have to go to class and so i wouldn't go as regularly and it some of the classes that i did that it hurt so
I'm normally a regular class attendee.
Attendance was high.
Especially with my schedule, the fall of my freshman year, I didn't have a lot of classes with
um my peers it was just kind of a random assortment in those classes so um normally i i'd go sit towards the front of the room and i'd read the battalion or school newspaper and uh just kind of sit up there for the 10 minutes that i was waiting for class to start and just took notes or whatever just kind of calm during class did you go to sleep in class
There were a few days that I fell asleep, especially when I was sitting up closer to the front of the room.
I did not fall asleep.
I made sure.
That's one of the reasons to sit up front.
Exactly.
But the days that I'd get in there sometimes a little later or had trouble getting to class on time, I'd sneak in the back of the room and be sitting in the back.
And normally those were the days that I was the most tired anyway.
So a few days that I nodded off in the back.
And any pranks in class that you witnessed?
No, sir.
I've heard of a couple, but I've never witnessed any.
Normally, you'll have your... There have been some good ones.
I heard a really good one this year.
Almost inappropriate, but still nonetheless funny.
A lot of times, especially in the bigger classes where you have four or five hundred people in a class, the professor is... It's more kind of a...
I mean, just a humongous lecture, but at the beginning, normally you'll have announcements time.
And it's almost like in our high school we had a chapel time every day to where you went in and heard announcements and then maybe heard a speaker.
So class almost became that kind of routine.
So they were doing class announcements, I think it was earlier this year, and one of the guys, he wasn't in the class, but he had been wanting to pull this prank for a while, so he made sure he did it in a class that he was not in.
And of course, the professor wouldn't know if he was or not, being in a class of 500.
And it was during Elections Week, especially during Student Body Elections Week, you have a lot of people making announcements for a vote for so-and-so for Student Body President or Yale leader or whatnot.
So he had gotten up there and he drank a lot of water beforehand, making sure that he had to go to the bathroom before he went up there.
He put on this huge act going up there asking if he could announce this person running or whatever.
So he got up there and started making the announcement and claiming that he was really, really, really nervous speaking to the class.
in front of this huge mass of people and wound up going to the bathroom in his pants and had it running down his leg and then froze and they had an emergency exit in the back of the room that you could go out and the alarm wouldn't sound or anything.
A lot of people use that as an exit anyway.
And so he was up there and he was just shaking, shaking, shaking, and then all of a sudden you just see this huge wet spot in his pants, and he took off out of the room.
Of course he wasn't in the class, and not a lot of people in the class knew who he was, but they said that he got a really good, really good laugh out of that one.
I thought that was, that's probably one of the best pranks that I've heard as far as in class goes.
In your years here, have you witnessed in class any bad, truly bad behavior in class?
Honestly, I haven't.
Most of the people that, I mean, when I'm in class and stuff, it's pretty civil behavior.
I really haven't even heard of any bad behavior within class as far as big arguments between professors and students or just people being really disrespectful.
It's really not a problem.
How were you non-reg students
How were y'all attracted into all of the traditions, yell practice and all that?
How did all that begin?
Of course it began, I just, I mean, just the knowing and thought process with it, definitely through fish camp.
And nobody had to beg you?
Nobody had to beg us.
I mean, I'm still a pretty regular attendee to yell practice, and of course to the games and different things like that.
But they really encouraged it within the residence hall.
If you didn't have your own group of people to go with, then the residence hall would always normally get a group together, go to the football games, go to Yale practice, go to Silver Taps, whatnot.
I was involved in a freshman leadership organization.
Started, I guess, the beginning of September.
The name of it is Fish Aids, and we were... Your freshman year?
My freshman year.
and what we did was we're kind of the the aids to student government association and through that like our main jobs were to answer phones within the office and help out with senate meetings and then through that we had our own meetings to where we learned a lot of valuable leadership skills things like that there were
40 of us in there, 20 guys, 20 girls.
And so there was always times to where I'd go with them to yell practice.
I'd go with them to football games and do a lot of the normal traditions that the core would do as a core body.
And that's a really valuable resource to be in another organization because you have
It's kind of like the Corps to where they will take you and do all that stuff, and you have a group to do it with rather than just doing it alone or whatnot.
A lot of people really were able to do a lot of that kind of stuff through organizations that they were involved with.
And was there a healthy, as far as you're aware, from the first, a healthy respect for the Corps?
Definitely.
I know there's some of my friends that are, I have quite a few friends that are what you call 2% Aggies that really don't get into the big traditions and all that kind of stuff.
I mean they're here for the education and enjoying their time here but get a little bit different, get a little, get out of A&M a little bit differently what say like I get out of it.
With my dad being in the Corps, I had the ultimate respect for the Corps of Cadets just growing up and knowing that when I came to A&M, I wasn't going to be in the Corps, but still having that respect.
Why did you decide you didn't want to be in the Corps?
I had said that...
When I was, of course, looking at playing football in college and decided that that wasn't going to be for me, just a number of reasons, and decided that since I wasn't going to do that, A&M was going to be a place for me, I wanted to be a normal, just a normal non-reg student rather than being in the core.
My mom always jokes about the fact that they couldn't get me to march to breakfast just because I'm not that big of a morning person.
Marching to breakfast really didn't appeal to me that much, but I just didn't think that the core was for me.
I think if I did it, I would have done fine with it.
And that freshman year, you went to Yale practices?
Yes, sir.
Went to Yale practices, went to football games, silver taps, all the...
Do you remember going to your first Silver Tax?
I do, and I just remember getting there.
We got there probably about 30 minutes earlier.
We got a good spot right next to Sol Ross.
I could see fairly well.
Of course, it's pitch black, so you can't see much.
But I remember just standing there, just in the silence.
I was there with my roommates and my suite mates and stuff.
Standing there, it was the...
first of course first Tuesday in September so still a little warm outside but I just remember the silence and just kinda you heard the the pitter-patter of all the footsteps walking up to Silver Taps and then Albritton Tower started playing hymns on the bells and I just remember the chills I got listening to the bells echoing through campus and echoing off of the academic building and then
I knew what happened but actually being able to take part in the first one and hearing the Ross Volunteers do their delayed cadence coming in and then doing their salute.
I remember the first time the guns went off.
I knew it was coming but I didn't know when and it was very unexpected so it scared me a little bit but still it was
After hearing that and then after hearing Silver Taps being played, it just had this sense of this is where I want to be and with these kind of traditions and this kind of campus environment, I knew I made the right decision coming to A&M.
Has it been your experience that people have appropriately respected Silver Taps tradition?
Totally.
I have never heard any kind of disrespect towards Silver Taps.
I haven't either.
Exactly.
It's just one of those things, and what everybody says, it's, I mean, you go to Silver Taps because you'd want everybody else to go to yours if that were the case.
So it's just that mutual respect that you have for,
those lost aggies you've had over the past month and so all right and so and you you went to midnight yell practice went to midnight yell practice um and what would you and your buddies do after midnight yell practice normally because we never went with dates to midnight yell practice we were we were kind of those those guys that just kind of went and hung out and um i've had a couple dates to midnight yell since then but uh especially freshman year we just kind of went as a group and
Afterwards, we'd either go, sometimes we went over to some other friend's dorms and probably popped in a movie or whatever.
And then at the beginning of the year, I think we had a couple late night games.
So we had some time to stay up on Friday night to where Saturday morning you could sleep in a long time.
But when the season starts to roll on, especially that year, A&M was playing a lot of
11 a.m.
games because for national TV purposes because I remember my freshman year we were ranked third in the country until I think middle October so we're always getting national national TV coverage and so they were doing a lot of the 11 o'clock game and so we we have to wake up real early in the morning to get to the games on time so we didn't stay up that late afterwards we were pretty good about it as of now a lot of times we'll go do go to parties or whatever after Yale practice
How did, in your freshman year, how did a fish, a civilian fish, get kept in the high part of the coyote field?
Why couldn't you slip down to some of the better seeds?
They do it, all the non-reg, well, the Corps, of course, has their block down on the first deck, but all the non-regs, they go by classification, so freshmen are basically limited to... Do they check your ID card or something?
Well, what they do, you pull tickets during the week, and so the first day,
uh of the week i think i believe they go freshman on monday sophomore on tuesday wednesday's junior pool and then thursday is senior pool and then friday is core pool and then what they do is so they do check your ticket they they do check your ticket but you can pull
It's just whatever day you pull.
So you can give, you have your sports pass and you use your sports pass to get your ticket.
You can give your sports pass to say a senior and go sit with them and be able to sit down on first deck.
But the freshmen, what they,
they get limited to the when you pull on freshman day you get limited to the basically the top half of the third deck and then if you get lucky you can get some good seats on it's a random selection but you get third deck as a freshman there's no second deck the only time we sat first deck as a freshman is they stuck us in the corner of the zone when it was still under construction but there was still some of the zone you could sit in and
It was the Baylor game that year, and I remember not wanting to ever sit down there again because it was hot, it was humid, and the wind didn't blow down there.
So that's why they stuck the freshman down there as well.
But the older you get, the closer you get to the game.
Now, with being in the fraternity, I'm pike up a five, and what we do, at least our chapter does, and some other chapters do it as well, is we pull in Greek block.
And so our fraternity will get all of our sports passes.
We'll probably have about 80 to 90 sports passes that we have, and we just keep them with one person, and he's in charge of going on Mondays when we get our block seating.
And we still sit up in third deck.
I like those seats, honestly, just because you see the whole game.
You get a good bird's eye view.
And we get probably the first 10 rows in one of the sections, normally on the 30, 35 yard line.
we get about two sections wide of about probably 10 rows deep of seats, and that's where we sit.
And that's where I've sat.
I basically stood in the same place for almost every football game since my sophomore year, which is a little bit different.
There was a couple games that we sat down on second deck this past year.
But for the most part, we're either on third deck or second deck.
But that's how kind of we do it now.
But
If we don't do it that way, then we can go pull, and sophomores get either third deck or the back part of second deck, and then the juniors get, maybe there's a couple juniors stuck up on third deck, but most of the juniors get second deck, and maybe a little bit of the first part of lower deck, and then all the seniors get first deck.
So you just kind of work your way down the ranks.
How long was it your freshman year before you got introduced to the fraternities?
I actually had not.
We had these shirts that were going around fall of my freshman year that said, A&M tradition since the beginning, no fraternities.
And then on the back it said, rent a friend, join a frat.
And so I kind of always got kind of giggles out of it because I'm not a drinker, so going to parties and stuff to drink beer or to go get alcohol or whatever never really appealed to me.
So that part of the fraternity life was not –
real appealing to me so that's why i kind of didn't look at it first but we had some friends of ours that were in high school that were really good guys that really wanted to start looking at piecat and i had just been asked to come out to a to a chapter barbecue in january when i first came back for the spring semester of my freshman year i didn't know it was rush week recruitment week and
I came in and we had barbecue and met all the guys.
I was like, wow, they're being really extra nice tonight.
I realized it was Rush and so I talked to my parents and decided that Saturday night, it was I think the second Saturday of the spring semester of 2000 that I decided to go through Rush.
That was the only fraternity.
I looked at a couple others in the fall just to see what fraternity life was like, but PyCAP was the only one that I looked at in the spring and decided to take my bid and be a pledge that semester.
All right, as of now, I'm going to ask you your opinion only on the positive.
Okay.
Other than your fraternity, which of the other fraternities do you think have the highest credibility, the highest reputation?
Which chapters do you?
Definitely as of right now, I think Sigma Chi has a very good reputation.
I think, well definitely just to start off, for the most part, all of them do in their own sense.
Of course, there's some others that are kind of black flagged and red flagged.
that kind of thing within the fraternity community.
But for the most part, the top chapters just as far as size and as far as involvement on campus, involvement within the community, especially involvement with the sororities, are definitely my chapter, Sigma Chi, Beta Theta Pi, let's see, Kappa Alpha,
And Phi Delta Theta are probably the main ones.
Sigma Nu is up there as well.
And I don't want to leave anybody out.
But yeah, those are the main ones, the biggest fraternities on campus and the ones that make a really solid impact.
Now there's some smaller ones that are really starting to come up and be strong and are doing really well for themselves.
Fiji just came back on the campus.
and have done really, really well since they came back on.
Delta Tall Delta had some struggles a couple years ago, especially when I first came in, and they've more than doubled their chapter size and gotten some really good guys in there and really doing well for themselves.
So it always fluctuates, but there's some really solid chapters right now.
How long before you moved to the fraternity house?
I haven't yet.
I'm actually living there next year.
Normally what you do is you pledge your freshman year and you live there your sophomore year and then you live on your own for the last two years or live in the fraternity house as long as you want.
We avoided it.
I lived on campus for my first two years.
My parents thought it would be a good idea and I had so much fun my freshman year and wanted to live there again.
So I lived on campus my first two years and
living in a dorm environment, and basically a fraternity house is just an off-campus dorm, and I wanted to kind of get a taste of the sweet apartment life for one year, so we live in an apartment this year, more of a townhouse this year, and then we're going into the fraternity house our last year, which would be a lot of fun, but it should be interesting.
Hung out at the fraternity house enough to know what it's what it's like and It's a it's a it's a it's a fun fun environment You have to get out of the house to go study, but it's a it's a fun environment Back to Aggie traditions Did you and any you and your buddies go to any out-of-town football games that freshman year?
Yes, sir.
We wait my freshman year.
We did we go I
We had Baylor at home, so we didn't have to make the Baylor trip.
Actually, the only out-of-town game that I made, I went with my suite mate and my dad and my cousin to the Alamo Bowl that year.
A&M played in the Sylvania Alamo Bowl in San Antonio.
And my cousin...
she's just graduating from Penn State this year.
And so that year she was a sophomore at Penn State, I'm a freshman at A&M, and A&M was playing Penn State.
So we got great seats from, we got, my uncle is on the Cotton Bowl Committee, so he made a couple phone calls for us and got us great seats, almost sitting in a box.
And that was the only road trip that we had made
uh my freshman year since then we've made quite a few um any memorable experiences definitely my sophomore year we actually went into a lottery to get the tickets got enough we got six tickets for myself my roommate and another good friend of mine and took our we went with our dads to the notre dame game up in south bend indiana and it was the it was
touchdown Jesus there it was it was just on it was one of the most memorable experiences that I've had here at A&M just being able to have the opportunity to do that we stayed in Chicago we left we skipped class on Friday we left on Thursday I'm sorry we left on Friday morning we left campus on Thursday stayed in Chicago Friday through Sunday drove into South Bend on Saturday morning for the game
toured around the whole campus that day absolutely beautiful campus reminded me a lot just the campus environment of a real small A&M just with the traditions but it was a very very very memorable experience that year we wound up making the Notre Dame road trip we went to the Baylor game which was a lot of fun and
That year was the year that A&M played in the Independence Bowl when it was the snow game.
And I had tickets to it and decided not to go.
I was going to stay with the family in Dallas.
So I had made two out of town games that year.
And then we've made it now kind of a tradition with...
the three of us that went to the Notre Dame game and our dads made a tradition that we're doing a long-distance road trip football game every year so this past year my junior year we we made it to Boulder Colorado for the Colorado A&M game and that was just as much fun a little harsher crowd up in Boulder but a beautiful campus just another unbelievable opportunity to be able to see another campus because of A&M football and great great great experiences
bonfire tragedy was your freshman my freshman year yes sir describe any work you did on bonfire before the the collapse actually just being involved in the freshman leadership organization that I was involved in we did a lot of community service projects on the weekend so I didn't really get a chance to I never got a chance to go to cut the only one of my buddies that went was one of my suite mates and went
And he had made a comment that he enjoyed going to cut but didn't want to go back just because it honestly takes a special type of person to be able to go out to cut and cut with the crew chiefs and stuff just because it's a pretty rough environment, especially when you're not used to that type of environment.
And the freshmen did get hazed out there, but that was just kind of the tradition.
And so he went out there for the day.
He planned on going half a day, and he couldn't leave.
They didn't make him leave until like 5 o'clock that afternoon.
So he was out there literally the entire day cutting.
About where was the cut area that year?
Do you remember?
Oh, man.
I think it was out.
I don't remember for sure.
I think it was out towards Huntsville.
But it was, I mean, of course, on land that they already had designated for cut.
But I can't remember exactly where it was.
It was, I think it was, I think they said it was about a 30-minute drive to cut.
And I had planned on, actually, scary enough, I had planned on, I hadn't got a chance to work on Bonfire yet.
I had a pot to be made and everything.
And we all had done that.
And we, my roommate and I had a quiz the night, we had the quiz the morning after a bonfire fell, not knowing that it was going to fall, of course.
We had planned on the next day, we had been asked to go out and help with stack.
that night.
It was the night of November 17th morning of November 18th and we'd asked to go out there and I really considered going out there.
Our hall had the duty from like 6 in the evening to midnight.
Aston, our next-door neighbor
had the midnight to 6 a.m.
shift.
So they all were out there at Cut, and I knew a couple guys, I mean out there at Stack, and I knew a couple guys that were out there from Aston, and I had some really good friends from the Corps that were out there that night as well.
But we had planned on going out the next night.
It was gonna be a...
Thursday night we said that'll be perfect night to go out there and help I don't know what the hours were but we plan on going out there just kind of seeing what was about because bonfire was the next week so it was almost done and we I just remember thinking you know I'm I really want to go out there and do that but I have this quiz the next morning so I couldn't go but I do remember I mean vague I mean I very vividly
just what all happened just that the next day where were you when you heard the news um i was asleep when i heard the news what happened was uh i had a 9 30 class that day so i normally didn't wake up until about eight o'clock
And I remembered it was probably about 6.30 that morning, our phone had rang, and it was my roommate's mom calling, making sure.
It's like, oh, I heard something.
We could vaguely hear in the background just us being asleep.
Something had happened, wanted to make sure we were okay, whatnot.
We were just like, we'll call later, and we're still asleep.
And I remember not being able to sleep all that well that night, but...
I was sleeping fairly well that morning, but I remember my roommate and I both remember waking up right around probably 2 o'clock in the morning, just waking up, just had a weird dream or whatever.
We both woke up at the same time saying that was kind of funny.
And then I guess probably about 7 o'clock in the morning, I started hearing thunderous helicopter noises overhead.
man, I wonder what's going on, and I could hear a lot of machinery outside, and we weren't that far away from stack, but I heard a lot of machinery, was kind of wondering what all the commotion was outside,
I wound up getting a phone call from my mom at that time saying, bonfire fell, wanted to make sure you were okay, not out there, whatnot.
And we didn't realize how the serious, I was like, shoot.
I knew back in 94 that bonfire had collapsed.
Nobody was on it, nobody got hurt, and they rebuilt it in time.
So I was like, well, shoot, they're going to have to really work hard to get this thing back up, not even realizing the seriousness of it.
We decided to wake up, turn on the TV, realize that there were quite a few injured, but no reports of deaths yet, and so we were like, wow, this is getting a little bit worse, a little bit worse, and then the more we were watching, the more reports were coming in.
Some Aggies had died during it, and so we were like, whoa, this is getting to be pretty serious, and I remember my suite mates had pretty much woke up at the same time.
We all had gone down to get some breakfast, and when we left our rooms,
Went outside and especially went down to eat.
Seeing downstairs when we were down there some of the crew chiefs that had been out there all morning and all night eating breakfast just in this haze that they were in, realizing the seriousness of this.
Seeing the pictures on TV that were just disturbing, seeing bonfire falling.
And then we had gone to class that morning.
I had a quiz at 9.30 or whatever.
And going to class and our professor telling us, look, you guys don't need to be here.
Please leave.
Go do whatever you need to do.
That was my only class of the day.
And so we left there.
And I had class with my two suite mates.
And so the three of us walked from, we were in Halbooty Building, which is right near where Bonfire Fell.
And we hadn't seen it yet.
So we started walking down the street and just seeing the
not realizing until you got there just how massive
the stack was when it fell.
And just the disturbing sight of seeing just this humongous stack on its side and knowing there were people underneath.
We had gone out there, we stood around the police line just waiting to see what we could do to help.
We were out there for probably a good 30 minutes to 45 minutes seeing the TV stations rolling up when we got there and then
So there were more of the out-of-town TV stations and the national TV stations were rolling up when we got there.
All the local ones were already there.
Seeing just the massive helicopters, news helicopters flying overhead, realizing that
If I was going to do something, I needed to go back, at least change some clothes and get out there.
Well, when I got back, I had a phone call from helping with student government.
They needed some help with fish aides up in the office because they were getting a lot of phone calls needed to man the phone.
So I immediately threw on my fish aide uniform and went up to the office.
That's what I did to help was answering phones and doing that.
My suite mate actually went out to Bonfire and helped remove logs and worked all day doing that.
Some other roommates were doing some other things, but I was up in the office answering phone calls.
I wound up talking to the student body president on the phone from the University of Texas.
Louisiana State University, I believe, Southwest Louisiana State University, and some other sude body presidents, because we manned the phones for our SBP at the time, which was Will Hurd, and just...
Talking to them, knowing that everybody was so busy that I was basically the only person they were going to be able to talk to that day.
And so they were asking me.
I had my sheet of paper of all the information that I could give out.
Talking to just some news and TV stations and not being able to get out any information, but just the constant ringing of the phones.
It was very...
It just kept me involved to where I wasn't just reflecting on it too much.
But that night is really when I got a chance to reflect on Bonfire a lot.
We had the memorial service that night, and Lieutenant Governor at the time, Rick Perry,